take a look at the small numbers on the
right-hand side of this chart I can zoom
in for you there between 2018 and
present that number has been hovering
between 4% and 6% right now if you've
been listening to left-wing news media
like Jake we're on The Young Turks if
you've been listening to campaign
speeches and debates from Bernie Sanders
you will have the preconceived notion
that this statistic you're looking at
right now the rate of wage growth in the
United States is at a crisis level that
it's so low and that it's been so low
for so long that this is a unique crisis
this is a special problem the United
States of America has and that other
countries don't have or they they don't
have the same problem right and I've
never once seen jenk Uighur on The Young
Turks I've never once seen him make this
argument or make this claim but
presenting this number or presenting
this chart and then comparing it to the
charts from other countries so you can
see this in perspective right what what
is the average person supposed to think
when they see this chart is four percent
a good number is six percent you know is
this is this you know consistent with
that dire warning Bernie Sanders is
giving us again and again that the
strange propaganda claim that the new
radicalism of Bernie Sanders is
justified because of a lack of wage
growth in the United States of America
this is Canada this is Canada by
comparison if you think that five and a
half percent wage growth is terrible
what what do you think about the economy
of Canada do you see the numbers on the
right-hand side
Canada you're lucky to be above 3% right
in the last several years you've long
periods of time there where it's way way
below 3% okay and you're basically never
above 4% oh wow hmm now wage growth the
United States seems quite hopeful
seems quite powerful seems quite strong
now now already we start question where
where did this idea come from that
America's problem is wait for oh oh
here's here's Germany all we ever hear
about in the news is how Germany has
this fantastically powerful
fantastically successful economy and it
does all we hear about is how German car
manufacturers are way more successful
than American car manufacturers and they
are we hear about how the German high
tech industry from the pharmaceutical
industry to the chemical industry even
they make many of the components that go
into mobile phones they make expensive
microphones all kinds of great equipment
well we hear nothing but good things
about the the German car we hear all the
time the Germany is the powerhouse of
the European Union economy look at the
numbers on the right-hand side of the
chart wage growth in Germany lucky
you're lucky to reach 2% oh now let's
look back at the United States rate of
wage growth and you people have
convinced yourselves because you're
dishonest carpetbagging liars like Jake
weaker and Bernie Sanders lying you
mother's day after day after day you've
convinced yourself that America's unique
problem America's economic disadvantage
in the world is low wage growth if you
believe that if you believe the United
States is in a crisis right now because
of lack of wage growth in the last 20
years then what what do you think about
Germany what do you think about Canada
are they on the brink of a socialist
revolution is Germany is the German
economy just falling apart because of
lack of wage growth where they're lucky
to reach 2%
[Music]
Japan this is Japan look at the numbers
in the right hand side Japan one of the
most vibrant economies in the world one
of the most impressive education systems
in the world fabulous high tech industry
fabulous exports fabulous car industry
the whole gamut Japan has one of the
most successful Cosma and you know you
know the really messed up part there's
an argument very few you'd be willing to
hear it and I think nobody of my
audience would be willing to make
there's an argument you can present that
one of the strengths Japan has is that
they've actually managed to have low
wage growth right that they haven't had
wages going up and up for all these
years that may be part of the reason why
unemployment in Japan is practically
zero all the time they have such low
unemployment and they have such a
vibrant economy they have such a great
such great export oriented industries
despite competing with China they have
to compete with China and Malaysia and
Indonesia and Vietnam they're still
delivery you know what if you think the
problem in the United States is lack of
wage growth why don't you look at Japan
where this number its lucky to be above
zero all right over of 2012 the present
Japan wage growth hovering around zero
now I have to put in a footnote here
Japan does not measure wage growth by
the same metric the United States does
wage growth doesn't have a standardized
measure the same way gross domestic
product does it's not like there's one
simple mathematical formula and all
these countries are doing it the same
way they're not however it's broad
brushstrokes what I'm saying here is
true and claims made about wage growth
that are now a major plank of left-wing
propaganda used by Bernie Sanders and
used by
I don't think those guys they even I
don't think they even think about what
is the argument like what's the basis
for this and what are their driving
towards this has become a mainstay of
propaganda repeated day after day after
day and I hear people echoing it back to
me
unquestionably and we can explode it
just a quick google search and look at
some charge Oh Financial Times us wage
growth stable at three point one percent
and if you've been paying attention you
know three point one percent is not a
low number not for Canada not for
Germany not for Japan and in fact hmm
the whole continent of Africa this isn't
one country so weighted average for the
whole continent of Africa year 2000 of
2009 does that look like a problem in
terms of wage growth oh the Middle East
2000 to 2008 does that look like a
crisis does that look like it would
cause political instability due to lack
of wage growth now let's look again
let's look again at that American and
German chart for wage growth let's ask
ourselves whether or not the rate of
wage growth the United States is really
problem whether or not the way to bridge
growth in in Germany is a problem
alright I have people sending me excuses
for Bernie Sanders and they're
well-intentioned they're people saying
things like well you know or any Sanders
isn't a researcher I mean like you know
Bernie Sanders can't be expected to
really do research about these things
Bernie Sanders can't be expected to have
a skeptical mind about things he found
out about decades ago and that he's been
repeating again and again he can't be
expected to question whether or not his
own beliefs and conclusions and
propaganda message is really true well
one thing you're putting your
expectations of Bernie Sanders
shockingly low because this is already
one problem but then the other question
is what what's your excuse for genk
weaker right when I look at Jack Uighur
I feel the exact opposite way about them
as most of the people in my audience and
most people on his audience I think most
people on the internet who watch this
stuff they really appreciate Jenk
leaders contribution to journalism
the entertainment and political
commentary provides but they regard his
political career as it's kind of a joke
it's kind of a distraction
I feel the other way around about it I
think Chang qui ger has an incredibly
important message to deliver about
corruption what he calls money in
politics I think he has an incredibly
important political platform not just in
standing for office an election now but
also in he's created various foundations
really targeting this issue really
trying to communicate to the public all
of your problems left-wing and
right-wing in the Unites States America
are linked to the fundamental problem
that you have cash-and-carry government
that people pay for influence that you
know the private sector can buy outcomes
can buy policy decisions that you really
fundamentally need to change much more
in American politics much more than just
campaign finance reforms you need to you
need to challenge the assumptions on
which the whole system I think that's a
fundamentally brilliant important
fulsome political message that Jake
Weger you know as a politician yeah he
seems to be at the beginning of his
career as a politician at the end I
support him on that a hundred percent
unfortunately as a journalist I think he
has absolutely no credibility whatsoever
I think he's someone who comes on camera
and has none of the self discipline and
none of the self doubt and none of the
skepticism and none of the intellectual
rigour and none of the honesty necessary
to do this job this job I'm basically
doing for you right now for free I'm
getting paid like five dollars a month
at this point by Google but I still have
the artist I still have the rigor to
just do this little bit of a google
search to just question a piece of
propaganda that I have heard repeated
out of Jake wheeler both again and again
and again on an almost daily basis for
years
Schank weaker is the same guy who will
come on camera and deadpan serious lie
to you about the Central Park five and
and the most fundamental lie is that
he'll pretend he knows what he's talking
about
when he never once read the police
reports he never once read the court
decisions he never once read the
interviews and the confessions with
rooms he never did the 15 minutes of
research that I did on and you know what
at some point we have to stop holding
our political leaders to such abysmally
low standards it's not enough to say
Bernie Sanders is better than Donald
Trump we have to move forward to saying
either Bernie Sanders is right or he's
wrong either Bernie Sanders knows what
he's talking about or he does not either
something is truth or fiction and if
you're dealing with fiction you tell me
are these lies well-intentioned or is
there some other agenda
[Music]